Oh
welcome to another video in today's
video I will present a huge trading
mistake that you need to avoid it has
something to do with the quiddity if you
manage to avoid this mistake you can
save thousands of dollars every year but
first off what even is liquidity
investopedia defines liquidity as the
degree to which an asset or security can
be quickly bought or sold in the market
without affecting the assets price so
the more liquid and a siddhis the easier
it is to enter and exit positions in
that asset typical features of very
liquid assets are high volume and very
tight bid-ask spreads the bid price is
the highest price a buyers willing to
pay for an asset and the ask price is
the lowest price that a seller is
willing to receive for that asset so the
bid-ask spread is the difference between
the bid and the ask price to clarify
this even more I want to present you a
brief example I will start by presenting
a relatively illiquid asset namely real
estate person a wants to buy a house for
$200,000 so the bid price is $200,000
and person B who is selling the house
wants to receive at least $250,000 which
also is the ask price in this case this
means the bid-ask spread for this
example is $50,000 that's a very wide
bid-ask spread and the potential buyer
and seller have a lot of negotiating to
do thus they will likely go quite some
time before the two parties will agree
on a price now let's compare this to a
very liquid asset namely a stock a very
popular and liquid
is Apple Apple often as a huge daily
volume often multiple hundreds of
million shares of Apple stock are traded
every day
therefore apples bid-ask bread is only
two pennies while as you can imagine
buying and selling shares of Apple stock
is very easy and can be done within
seconds hopefully these two examples
give you a good idea of what a liquid
and what a illiquid asset is but even in
the stock market
there are countless very illiquid assets
but why does this even matter to answer
this question let's take a closer look
at the bid-ask spread and its impact
once again i'll use two examples to
clarify the impact of the bid-ask spread
on new trading on the one hand we have
trader a he mainly trades relatively
illiquid assets on the other hand we
have trader B who focuses on very liquid
assets a typical bid-ask spread of
trader a is around half a dollar a
typical bit off spread for trader B
however is only two pennies now let us
say that both of these traders make
around 100 trades per year with around
100 shares of stock per trade just for
the sake of this example or we use a
stock price of around 100 dollars to
present the impact of the bid-ask spread
both traders always buy at the ask price
and sell at the bid price in my opinion
this is a very reasonable example so
without considering stock price movement
trader a losers around 0.5 dollars per
share per trade and trader B loses only
around two pennies per share per trade
if you multiply this number by 100 for
the number of chairs and buy another 100
for the number of trades in a year you
get
thousand dollars for trader a and $200
for trader B so trader a loses around
five thousand dollars every year just
because it trades illiquid assets that's
a staggering four thousand eight hundred
dollars more than trader B who focuses
on very liquid assets and remember this
is without even considering the cost of
commissions and the costs of trading
losses furthermore this is with only one
hundred shares per trade and only one
our trades in a year many traders trade
much bigger and much more frequent so
these figures may be even greater for
other traders I really hope you can see
what a huge impact wide bid-ask spreads
on illiquid assets can have on your
trading now let us look at another
aspect that liquidity effects that
aspect is filled times so the time that
you have to wait for an order of yours
to get filled obviously this depends on
the price that you chose to order at but
it's safe to say that the same order on
a liquid asset as on an illiquid asset
will be filled much faster on the liquid
asset this also makes perfect sense
all you have to do to understand this is
look at the volume if there are
thousands if not even millions of people
trying to buy and sell the same asset it
will be much easier to get good pricing
and a fast execution than it is when
there's only one or two or let's say
even 100 other traders so with bad
liquidity comes bad fill times and bad
pricing if the liquidity is very bad you
often can't even get out of your
positions at all and believe me one of
the worst feelings is to not be able to
get out of your positions
the third and final aspect to consider
when looking at liquidity is your
probability of profit believe it or not
but trading illiquid assets will
decrease your probability of profit
usually the more an assets price has to
move the lower the probability of profit
becomes here is yet another example
stock a VC is trading at around $10 and
it's bid-ask spread is around half a
dollar wide to open a position in ABC
you will have to buy at the ask price
and you will only be able to sell at the
bid price this would mean that stock ABC
has to move up by five percent for you
to just break even just think about that
for a second
a five percent increase just to break
even and remember that's without
considering Commission's so even if the
stock price goes in your direction by
five percent you won't make a dime
hopefully this really shows the
importance of liquidity now let's sum
things up it is very important to
understand that liquidity is king
trading illiquid stocks or other assets
can be disastrous for your success so
make sure to always look at the
following aspects before entering a
trade number one volume and don't only
look at the shares traded on a day also
look at the dollar volume to find the
dollar volume all you have to do is
multiply the number of shares traded on
a day by the stock price the daily
volume of one hundred thousand isn't
near as good for one dollar stock as it
is for one hundred dollar stock the
second factor to always look at is the
bid-ask spread it should always be as
tight as possible
remember the wider the bit off spread
the lower your probability of profit
becomes the last factor to look at is
only relevant for options and futures
traders the factor is open interest open
interest displays the open contracts of
a given option or future contract so in
other words the number of contracts that
have not yet been closed if you have
traded illiquid assets in the past
please don't do the same mistake in the
future focusing on liquid assets only
can dramatically improve your trading
performance I really hope you enjoyed
this video thanks for watching if you
enjoy content like this I recommend
checking out trade options with me calm
furthermore make sure to subscribe if
you want to support this channel
you